What would you say, is the best online-source for PHP-related things?
php
What would you say is the best online-source for interesting things about PHP and stuff around it? I am thinking along the lines of a blog or online-magazine, which tells me about tricks, news and best practices.
Please add a short comment about the site you recomment! :)
Best regards, B


I find php.net to be a great resource for pretty much everything PHP related. Great reference, great community, and lots of code.

In the site php.net, after each function of php, programmers give examples of many uses of the function. When i want to use some function in a special way, like imap_open to read a pop account, then first i do, is going to php.net description to that function. And then read all the uses wich people give to the function.

One cool thing about php.net is that you can append the function name onto the end of the url.  Example:
php.net/str_replace
Will take you to the correct page.  It's also forgiving about spaces and will do a search if it doesn't find anything.
Mysql does similar in that it will search the docs.  Try:
mysql.com/insert

gotAPI.com has a good interface to the help on php.net

php.net is the best one IMHO.
But you'll also find a great deal of knowledge in Zend.com and Sitepoint

Planet-PHP is a nice site with news and other stuff about PHP.

Zend Developer Zone has many well written and interesting articles.

I subscribe to the PHP Mailing lists - they're a great source for information and news. OTherwise here's a few feeds on my Google Reader:

programming.reddit (General but useful)
PHP.reddit
PHPDeveloper.org
SO Tagged PHP

I'd have more but I've been pruning off my Reading list recently - I seriously reccommend the PHP mailing lists however. php.internals is good for internal questions and looking in on the development of PHP and php.general is good for asking questions.
I also visit a few forums (TalkPHP or PHPFreaks for example) but I prefer news sites and such.

I've also used PHPClasses.org quite a bit - they have a monthly newsletter with "10 most useful PHP modules" competition, found a few gems that way.

Well, the best bits aren't online, but I'd suggest the site, books and magazines from PHP Architect
Their site has some nice articles but more importantly, many of their books are must-haves:

php|architect's Zend PHP 5 Certification Study Guide, 2nd Edition 
php|architect's Guide to Programming with Zend Framework
php|architect's Guide to Enterprise PHP Development

This actually has some problems, owing to excessive emphasis on TDD, but is also a classic:

php|architect's Guide to PHP Design Patterns

And perhaps the one book that every PHP developer needs to read:

php|architect's Guide to PHP Security by Ilia Alshanetsky

Their magazine is available through online subscription and goes back many years; the articles are amazing and you can get the current magazine and back issues as PDFs.

PHPDeveloper, maintained by the infamous Chris "enygma" Cornutt, is a great place to get information about what's going on in the PHP world. PHPDeveloper aggregates lots of blogs as well as community news. Even if a particular article that is posted isn't great, the blog it came from might be. Plus, enygma keeps on it and posts at least 10 summaries a day, if not more.

Don't forget this very site :)
