How can I disable the eclipse server startup timeout?
eclipse eclipse-wtp
By default when using a webapp server in Eclipse Web Tools, the server startup will fail after a timeout of 45 seconds.  I can increase this timeout in the server instance properties, but I don't see a way to disable the timeout entirely (useful when debugging application startup).  Is there a way to do this?


 In Eclipse Indigo, you can edit the default timeout by double-clicking on the server in the "servers" view and changing the timeout for start (see graphic).  Save your changes, and you're good to go!

yes this works, but the maximum limit is 1800, which is 30mins. 
Sometimes when rebuilding our entire database (on server initial start) this can go for longer than 30mins and causes problems. 

Julie's answer gives you a long timeout, but not unlimited. You can move the server configuration file to the workspace, and then edit the xml file directly and set a limit greater than 1800. It's an ugly hack, but should work.



On the EclipseIDE, double click on the server
Admin panel opens up, click on the "Timeouts" tab
Put larger value in the "Start (in seconds)", may be 1800
Restart/Start the server

If everything is okay, the server should start.

Goto Window > Preferences > Server
Set 'Server timeout delay' as Unlimited from drop-down menu.
or
Goto $WORKSPACE/.metadata/.plugins/org.eclipse.core.runtime/.settings/org.eclipse.wst.server.core.prefs
Add/update line machine-speed= -1
here, -1 ~ Unlimited

Just another data point.  If you see in your Console "Server startup in NNN ms", but the Server view still shows that it is trying to start, and then times out eventually killing the server, it might be that you have no plain HTTP connector configured.  For example, if you have only a 2-way SSL connector configured in your Tomcat, it will start fine with the scripts in "TOMCAT_HOME/bin", but if you try to start it with the Eclipse Server view, it won't be able to open a connection to the HTTP port, and will terminate when it hits the timeout.  (This was with a fairly old STS 2.1.0.  Don't know if it's fixed in later versions)
Joe

If you still has issue after changing timeout settings, then it's best to remove the server configuration in Eclipse (in Server view tab) and re-create it again. 
Server --> New Server.
It worked for me.
