Tools to annotate images
documentation image
What tools do you use to annotate images?
I mean, for example, placing a screenshot into documentation with some text bubbles, arrows, numbers for references in text and so on.
Sure, you can do all of these in general graphics editor, but a specialized tool (or plugin for a generic editor) would be so much nicer and should produce more consistent results.


The best program I have come across is Screenshot Studio.  It is commercial software though and only available for Windows.
As mentioned in the comments, there is a free version called Fireshot.  It is limited to grabbing web pages.  The feature set matches up fairly equitably with Screenshot Studio, so should be a viable option for doing web app documentation.

I think SnagIt is the best tool. It's a commercial tool, but it supports the whole life cycle in terms of taking screenshots and then annotating them.

I use Adobe Illustrator, OpenOffice Draw or Microsoft Word, depending on the situation and operating system. It's easy to cut-and-paste a screenshot directly into any of these programs.
They offer plenty of flexibility, and they are popular enough that most of the people I know already use at least one of them. Which means I can share the native file formats and don't need to worry about exporting to PDF or JPEG/PNG images first (I might want to change those annotations later).
It's also nice to be annotating using vector graphics, since this makes it easier to edit/scale shapes, arrows, etc. without losing quality.

I second SnagIt. For something less "everything and the kitchen sink", I use Jing. For Apple Mac, there's Skitch.

I bank on Skitch. It works on a mobile, windows and they have a windows 8 version out as well. Its easy to use - doesn't have a ton of features - and gets the job done. Plus, doesn't force you to upload your images - you can save it on your desktop and do what you please.

The best tool I ever seen (and open source) is Greenshot (http://getgreenshot.org/). It has an built in screenshot editor with arrows, blocks and other tools. It is perfectly integrated with Windows. Starts with a Print screen button. You can then edit (optionally) and export directly to MS Office documents, Picasa, and many more...

I use Skitch. Skitch is free and can share with 1 click.
