What is the best web based Subversion client?
svn web-applications
What is your favorite web-based svn client? I'd like one that supports commits via the web.
One tool per post please! Please include platform and notable features (e.g. read-write support).
I'm referring to browser-based clients that users would go to like any other website--not accessing the repo via http.


Subversion via DAV is a decent platform for subversion:
http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.1/ch06s04.html
I don't know if you mean that you want a web application to manage your files, but with DAV or even a subversion command line clinet you can use the HTTP as the protocol for your svn usage.

Don't know if this is exactly what you are looking for but it's worth a try:
Beanstalk

The polarion community webclient looks decent, but I have only played with it so far, so no real world experience, but worth a try.

The shop I work at uses WebSVN.
It's a read-only solution, however.  It does that well, but you'll still need to find a solution for write-support.

Trac has a web based repository browser, but you can not commit or change the repository in any other way with it.
I think that the best solution would be to find a Java based client, e.g. SmartSVN.

VisualSVN supports browsing a repository very quickly over the web, but I don't think you can do commits.

All web clients that I know of are read only, meaning that you can only browse the files, make diffs, set up RSS feeds, but you can not modify the repository in any way.
WebSVN is the PHP interface that I installed at the office and that I use everyday. It has everything I have ever needed.
Trac is quite good also, but it is a complete project management suite, since it has also features like bug tracking or release planning. It is able to manage only one repository for each installation (but you can have multiple ones on the same machine).
Many others are available, you can find a list on Wikipedia (look for 'web-based').
The http interface available via WebDAV can be used with a common browser,  you can see any revision with adding query param ?p=@REV. However you can customize the page layouts, as is explained here.

Codebeamer from http://www.intland.com has a web svn repository, where you can do commits and tie your code to requirements and other nice SE artifacts.  They have a free version up to 6 users (including customer and developers).  I hope you find what you are looking for in this product.  The software also supports CVS and other version control software.

I located a bare-bones PHP package called DoctorSVN that allows a few functions... It's been out of development for a year, though, and only ever had six revisions.
The downside is it has to be installed on a server that has the svn command available, so it's not an out-of-the-box solution; you have to have your own server to run it on.

Try SVN Manager. It is for the administration of Subversion only. You can add repositories and users/groups and grant read/write access to users/groups to repositories.

I would recommend ViewVC.
We used to use WebSVN, but found ViewVC to be faster and easier to use (although harder to install).
