IDE's for C# development on Linux?
c# linux ide mono
What are my options?  I tried MonoDevelop over a year ago but it was extremely buggy.  Is the latest version a stable development environment?



Is the latest version stable a stable development environment?

Probably ... it hit 1.0 this past spring.

MonoDevelop 2.0 has been released, it now has a decent GUI debugger, code completion, intellisense c# 3.0 support (including linq), and a descent GTK# Visual Designer.
In short, since the 2.0 release I have started using mono develop again and am very happy with it so far.
Check out the MonoDevelop website for more info.

I used MonoDevelop a while ago, and it was fine. It's not anywhere near as good as Eclipse or NetBeans are for Java development, but those are really in a class of their own. And I think the only real alternative is using emacs or vim...
It's fairly polished. Stability really wasn't an issue. Simple code-completion is there, as is jumping to to declaration, super-class and the extremely useful find references. Debugging isn't there, though, which is a fairly glaring omission. I actually spent a couple of minutes trying to set up a breakpoint until it dawned on me that there isn't even a way to "Debug..." instead of "Run..."

Have you looked at SlickEdit?  I thought it was pretty good several years ago when I was developing C++ apps on Linux.  It says it supports C#, but I cannot comment as to how well.  I was happy to use it for my C++ development, though.

I would recommend X-develop from Omnicore. It is a very good IDE, but is only free to use for 30 days.

There is a C# binding for Eclipse, though I haven't tried it personally, so I can't vouch for it.  I use MonoDevelop, which isn't perfect, but works reasonably well for the most part.  The version included in Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) is much more stable than the Gutsy Gibbon version. 

Monodevelop
There are 2 versions around:

1.0: the currently stable version. It is indeed stable, but somewhat limited in its capabilities. It's very good for smallish projects. I got it via the ubuntu hardy repos.
2.0RC (aka 1.9.x) you can get it via SVN and compiling. The process is quite straightforward, and you can run it without installing (via make run). It's somewhat less stable than 1.0, but it depends on which build you get (it's a development snapshot). Regarding capabilities, it is great. It has refactoring, profiling, tons of plugins, etc. 


Microsoft has released Visual Studio Code for Linux, which has good C# support, naturally.
