Open source cad drawing (dwg) library in C#
c# open-source autocad cad dwg
Anyone knows of an open source DWG (autocad drawing) library in C#?


There was at one time an effort to port Art Haas's .dwg parser (from the pythoncad project) to c#.  I can't seem to find the link ATM, but it was a few years ago.  Creating an open source cross-platform .dwg library is at the top of my list for VectorSection, so let me know what you find out!

The major hurdle with the DWG format is that the binary format changes every 3 years - and it is due to change again in March 2009. It is encrypted and the specifications for it are not made public. It is a massively complicated library with many dark alleys unknown to even AutoDesk (they acquired it years ago).
Not open source but the Open Design Alliance ... (from their Web site)...

is a non-profit membership-based
  consortium of software companies,
  developers and users committed to
  promoting the open exchange of CAD
  data now and in the future. In
  addition to setting standards for CAD
  data formats, the ODA also focuses on
  the practical matter of developing
  software libraries of exceptional
  quality that enable ODA members to
  develop applications capable of
  reading and writing the popular DWG
  and DGN CAD file formats.

Cost depends on what you are using the libraries for but the base-level cost for a developer is U$100/year with a U$250 joining fee. Compare that to AutoDesk's RealDWG at $2500/year and $5000 for the 1st year then it's a bargain. The RealDWG licence is per product, by the way. The ODA licenses are a bit more reasonable and also allow you to make more than 1 product on the same license. you can pay for the source code but it costs a bomb - less than developing it yourself though
If you only have 1 product then perhaps RealDWG will suit you but it's Windows only - bonus, it has a .NET API which the ODA are still working on. The ODA products are compiled for a number of operating systems, including Windows (32-bit), SGI, Solaris, Windows (64-bit), Macintosh, HP, Windows CE, Linux, IBM AIX.
I any case that's a massive wheel to reinvent so it's definitely worth paying for one that already turns.
Some 3rd-party libraries exist out there with limited specific API functionality to try searching for those if your needs are very specific.
It is also worth noting that AutoDesk has been in more-or-less continuous litigation with the ODA for years now. If you decide to compete with them then that's another complexity you have to look forward to.
I am also developing a product that talks to DWG files. I'm going the commercial route because the time, expense and hassle involved is utterly uneconomical for me.

The easiest route is to convert dwg to dxf ascii, it is fairly simple to query ascii dxf.

There are no open source solutions, there are a few commercial ones, amongst which a .NET component named CadLib provided by Wout Ware: http://www.woutware.com/cadlib.html.

did anyone try cadsofttools CAD Import? 
http://www.cadsofttools.com
http://www.cadsofttools.com/en/products/cad_import_.net.html

If you go down the dxf route I would suggest netDXF . it's open source and worked well for my limited requirements though it is missing multi-line text support and the author says there are some other things he wont support because they're proprietary to autodesk.

The only open source one I know of is LibreDwg and I don't think it is completed.  It never really got very far.
I do know of one that is practically free, its called the Ivan CAD Library 2012 and its located at www.ivancad.com. 
It might serve your needs very well.
