Any Substitute API for Win32API?
user-interface winapi api replace
I need an API that can make menus like Win32API,
But something simpler and better than WinAPI.
That can make GUI, with text zones, buttons etc...like an average Windows program.(Windows GUI Style)
Can anyone recommand on one like it? Thanks.


wxWidgets:

wxWidgets lets developers create applications for Win32, Mac OS X, GTK+, X11, Motif, WinCE, and more using one codebase. It can be used from languages such as C++, Python, Perl, and C#/.NET. Unlike other cross-platform toolkits, wxWidgets applications look and feel native. This is because wxWidgets uses the platform's own native controls rather than emulating them. It's also extensive, free, open-source, and mature. 


Take a look at http://www.wxwidgets.org/ - check out some of their tutorials to get a feel for it.
See also 

GUI Programming APIs 
What is a good GUI / Widget toolkit for windows?

(EDIT: I wrote this answer in Oct 2008, since then I've become a convert to Qt - it makes high-quality cross platform development a breeze!)

If you really are using Win32 directly, you might try MFC.
Or if you want something more modern, WTL
http://wtl.sourceforge.net/

Windows Template Library (WTL) is a
  C++ library for developing Windows
  applications and UI components. It
  extends ATL (Active Template Library)
  and provides a set of classes for
  controls, dialogs, frame windows, GDI
  objects, and more.


Though I have never used it, QT seems like a pretty decent framework and is open source as well, multiplatform and has a mobile api as well and can be coded with Java or C++.
http://trolltech.com/downloads

GTK!
Though it will require Windows users install a GTK library package in order to use your program (thumbs down on that) its got a beautiful code structure, especially when paired with Python.

WinForms and WPF are an alternatives for .NET programming. You won't be able to do everything in the Win32 API, but there is a substantial subset.

Delphi's VCL if you are targeting win32 platform.


SmartWin - Win32 Only
Ultimate++ - Cross platform
FLTK - Cross platform

