Data from Google Analytics
google-analytics
So Google Analytics does not have an API that we can use to get our data, so is there an efficient way to programaticly fetch the data collected by Google, without logging it locally?
Edit:
I would prefer a Python or PHP solution but anything will work.


Well, it depends on what you want to do with the data. If you only want to process part of it, then I don't think it is difficult.
Here's a basic web search with a hit explanations from Google and someone else:
http://www.google.com/support/analytics/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=55561
http://blogoscoped.com/archive/2008-01-17-n73.html

Its been a while since I had to deal with this, but Google Analytics has an XML output type, so you can parse that to get the data in your own system.  However, I believe that there is no way to get the xml file programatically, so someone still has to go in and generate the file and feed it to your app.
Good question though, I'd love to see if there is a 100% automated solution.

Also, I forgot about this: I never actually completely implemented this for a client because the deal fell through...
But you can customize the dashboard to include the sections of Google Analytics that your report might need and have a scheduled email.  If the reports do not need to be too detailed and if Google already aggregates the data in the way you need it, then this might work for you.

There is a completely programmatic way to access the data using greqo(PHP), but the analytics class is in beta. Check it out here.
If beta is not acceptable, you can use a mixture of the XML and Yahoo Pipes to get what you need.

Basic Method
Obtain the tracking data in a usable
  format – We can schedule Google
  Analytics to email this as an XML file
  on a regular basis.
Make the XML file accessible online –
  By emailing an attachment to Google
  Groups, the file is automatically
  given a public URL.
Work out the URL of the most recent
  report – Since Google Groups provides
  RSS/Atom feeds for all messages, we
  can easily find the URL of the most
  recent message and therefore work out
  the URL of the XML report.
Prepare the data for use – We need to
  manipulate the XML and massage it into
  a handy JSON format that we can use on
  our blog, which can all be done using
  Yahoo Pipes.

Taken from here.

I implemented a solution where we scheduled the analytics report to be emailed to a gmail account each day and I pulled the report on demand via POP3.  It's pretty easy and works fast.  I've heard Epic1 will do this for you as well.  I'm researching that now.

Google just announced that they're making available a data export API for Google Analytics. It sounds like that's exactly what you're looking for.
Per their announcement, the feature's currently in private beta, but I figure it'll be rolled out to all accounts in coming weeks/months. Depending on your needs, you may just want to wait, instead of building a short-term hackish solution.
If you're interested, I presume that the functionality's being rolled out first to members of the Google Analytics Trusted Tester program.

The Google Analytics API is now open to everyone and looks like it contains the full data set

If you're using Python, Pandas io is also very helpful.  Pandas has an interface on top of the Google Analytics API. It's pretty simple to get up and running and integrates with Pandas so you get the aggregation, time series features, and other data analysis library features.  
instructions on how to authenticate and shows examples: http://blog.yhathq.com/posts/pandas-google-analytics.html 
more examples: http://quantabee.wordpress.com/2012/12/17/google-analytics-pandas/
I've also posted a few queries to get started
https://github.com/sk8asd123/ga_pandas

We just released a product - Megalytic - that makes it very easy to create custom reports using data from the Google Analytics API.  You can email these reports to others without sharing your Google Analytics account.  Also, create links to reports, download as PDF, etc.
