Replace in multiple files - graphical tool for Linux
search replace text-editor
It needs to be graphical. No sed, awk, grep, perl, whatever. I know how to use those and I do use them now, but I need to cherry-pick each replace in 300+ files.
I want a tool where I can:

type a search string
type a replace string
select a directory and file extension

and it would recursively go into each file in that directory and its sub-directories, open it and scroll to the place where search string is and offer two options:

replace (and find next)
find next

Nothing more. Reg.exp. support is a plus, but not required.
SOLVED: Regexxer is exactly what I needed. In case someone needs it on Slackware, here's what you need to download and how to compile it (choosing correct version of each dependency can be a PITA)


Emacs + dired + query-replace-regexp
For complete recipe follow this link (it's rather long, covering all possible alternatives),

I think regexxer is exactly what you're looking for:
Regexxer

regexxer is a nifty GUI  search/replace tool featuring Perl-style regular 
  expressions. If you need project-wide substitution and you’re tired of 
  hacking sed command lines together, then you should definitely give it a try.

See also the screenshot, looks a lot like what you're describing: 


jEdit does exactly what you need. It is written in Java and works well in Linux, Windows and OS X (probably other operating systems also).

I use gVim for this task all the time.  I open up all the files at once, then use the commands to perform a subsitution on each file, asking for confirmation.  Generally I use < 20 files, so I open them as tabs and use this:
:tabdo %s/foo/bar/gc

gVim works fine on Windows :)  My coworkers often use Textpad to do this same thing, but I'd say gVim is much more efficient at it.

If you are a KDE user there's also kfilereplace.

Lately Kate (if you use KDE) can do it, but in a very tricky way. Go to "Edit>Search in Files", and choose the folder within which your files exist.
The trick is that only after the search results appear, you will find a text box and a button called "Replace checked". This button will do what you want.
