QR decoder that works on mac?
osx qr-code decoder
Anyone know a QR decoder that works on mac or that might be online? I just need to decode one single image.


found http://www.drhu.org/QRCode/QRDecoder.php

This online decoder may also work for you:
ZXing Decoder Online

I managed to compile qrencode 2.0 a few months ago on my iMac. You need the developer tools installed (obviously), I can't remember if I need to build any additional libraries first like libpng or something like that. But that's for encoding strings as QR images...
You can use the Java QR Code Library on SourceForge, I also tried it on a Mac to decode images that I encoded with qrencode 2.0 and it worked fine.

here is an online decoder which should work for you, it uses the zxing online decoder in the background
QRgen Online QR Decoder

Here's one that uses your webcam and works in realtime like a QR decoder for a phone.  It's based on AdobeAir and works reasonably well.
http://www.dansl.net/blog/?p=256

http://www.macstories.net/mac/mac-app-store-preview-quickmark-qr-code-reader/
this one work for mac with iSight.

Unfortunately, the most used library libdecodeqr is depends on OpenCV (gtk2) and it is too hard to compile it on OS X. (Tried to compile it because it is needed by Image::DecodeQR perl module - but unsuccessful).
Fortunately, found this link: http://macscripter.net/viewtopic.php?id=37404 from citing the next:

Download the ZBar source code.
Unpack the the tarball, and open the resulting directory in a Terminal window.
Type ./configure --disable-video --without-python --without-gtk --without-qt to configure the build process, limiting dependencies to ImageMagick.
Type "make" to invoke the build process.
Type "sudo make install", and enter an administrator password when prompted.

You will need ImageMagick what can be installed from macports.
After installing the ZBar, you can nicely decode qrcode with a command
zbarimg qrcode_file.png

Tested on OS X Mavericks 10.9.2 (and Lion/10.7.5)- and works nicely. Becasue it only depends on ImageMagick (exists in macports)- should be easily "compilable" on other OS X versions too.
