Is Functional to Relational mapping easier than Object to Relational?
database orm functional-programming rdbms
Object-relational mapping has been well discussed, including on here.  I have experience with a few approaches and the pitfalls and compromises.  True resolution seems like it requires changes to the OO or relational models themselves.
If using a functional language, does the same problem present itself?  It seems to me that these two paradigms should fit together better than OO and RDBMS.   The idea of thinking in sets in an RDBMS seems to mesh with the automatic parallelism that functional approaches seem to promise. 
Does anyone have any interesting opinions or insights?  What's the state of play in the industry?


I'd guess functional to relational mapping should be easier to create and use than OO to RDBMS. As long as you only query the database, that is. I don't really see (yet) how you could do database updates without side effects in a nice way.
The main problem I see is performance. Todays RDMS are not designed to be used with functional queries, and will probably behave poorly in quite a few cases.

I'd think that, as Sam mentioned, if the DB should be updated, the same concurrency issues have to be faced as with OO world. The functional nature of the program could maybe be even a little more problematic than the object nature because of the state of data, transactions etc of the RDBMS.
But for reading, the functional language could be more natural with some problem domains (as it seems to be regardless of the DB)
The functional<->RDBMS mapping should have no big differences to OO<->RDMBS mappings.  But I think that that depends a lot on what kind of data types you want to use, if you want to develop a program with a brand new DB schema or to do something against a legacy DB schema, etc.. 
The lazy fetches etc for associations for example could probably be implemented quite nicely with some lazy evaluation -related concepts. (Even though they can be done quite nicely with OO also)
Edit : With some googling I found HaskellDB (SQL library for Haskell) - that could be worth trying?

The hard problems of extending the relational database are extended transactions, data-type mismatches, automated query translation and things like N+1 Select that are fundamental problems of leaving the relational system and -- in my opinion -- do not change by changing the receiving programming paradigm.

I haven't done functional-relational mapping, per se, but I have used functional programming techniques to speed up access to an RDBMS.
It's quite common to start with a dataset, do some complex computation on it, and store the results, where the results are a subset of the original with additional values, for example.  The imperative approach dictates that you store your initial dataset with extra NULL columns, do your computation, then update the records with the computed values.
Seems reasonable.  But the problem with that is it can get very slow.  If your computation requires another SQL statement besides the update query itself, or even needs to be done in application code, you literally have to (re-)search for the records that you are changing after the computation to store your results in the right rows.
You can get around this by simply creating a new table for results.  This way, you can just always insert instead of update.  You end up having another table, duplicating the keys, but you no longer need to waste space on columns storing NULL – you only store what you have.  You then join your results in your final select.
I (ab)used an RDBMS this way and ended up writing SQL statements that looked mostly like this...
create table temp_foo_1 as select ...;
create table temp_foo_2 as select ...;
...
create table foo_results as
  select * from temp_foo_n inner join temp_foo_1 ... inner join temp_foo_2 ...;

What this is essentially doing is creating a bunch of immutable bindings.  The nice thing, though, is you can work on entire sets at once.  Kind of reminds you of languages that let you work with matrices, like Matlab.
I imagine this would also allow for parallelism much easier.
An extra perk is that types of columns for tables created this way don't have to be specified because they are inferred from the columns they're selected from.

That depends on your needs

If you want to focus on the data-structures, use an ORM like JPA/Hibernate
If you want to shed light on treatments, take a look at FRM libraries: QueryDSL or Jooq
If you need to tune your SQL requests to specific databases, use JDBC and native SQL requests 

The strengh of various "Relational Mapping" technologies is portability: you ensure your application will run on most of the ACID databases. 
Otherwise, you will cope with differences between various SQL dialects when you write manually the SQL requests .
Of course you can restrain yourself to the SQL92 standard (and then do some Functional Programming) or you can reuse some concepts of functionnal programming with ORM frameworks
The ORM strenghs are built over a session object which can act as a bottleneck:

it manages the lifecycle of the objects as long as the underlying database transaction is running. 
it maintains a one-to-one mapping between your java objects and your database rows (and use an internal cache to avoid duplicate objects).
it automatically detects association updates and the orphan objects to delete
it handles concurrenty issues with optimistic or pessimist lock.

Nevertheless, its strengths are also its weaknesses:

The session must be able to compare objects so you need to implements equals/hashCode methods.
But Objects equality must be rooted on "Business Keys" and not database id (new transient objects have no database ID!). 
However, some reified concepts have no business equality (an operation for instance). 
A common workaround relies on GUIDs which tend to upset database administrators.
The session must spy relationship changes but its mapping rules push the use of collections unsuitable for the business algorithms.
Sometime your would like to use an HashMap but the ORM will require the key to be another "Rich Domain Object" instead of another light one... 
Then you have to implement object equality on the rich domain object acting as a key... 
But you can't because this object has no counterpart on the business world.
So you fall back to a simple list that you have to iterate on (and performance issues result from).
The ORM API are sometimes unsuitable for real-world use. 
For instance, real world web applications try to enforce session isolation by adding some "WHERE" clauses when you fetch data...
Then the "Session.get(id)" doesn't suffice and you need to turn to more complex DSL (HSQL, Criteria API) or go back to native SQL
The database objects conflicts with other objects dedicated to other frameworks (like OXM frameworks = Object/XML Mapping).
For instance, if your REST services use jackson library to serialize a business object.
But this Jackson exactly maps to an Hibernate One.
Then either you merge both and a strong coupling between your API and your database appears
Or you must implement a translation and all the code you saved from the ORM is lost there...

On the other side, FRM is a trade-off between "Object Relational Mapping" (ORM) and native SQL queries (with JDBC)
The best way to explain differences between FRM and ORM consists into adopting a DDD approach.

Object Relational Mapping empowers the use of "Rich Domain Object" which are Java classes whose states are mutable during the database transaction 
Functional Relational Mapping relies on "Poor Domain Objects" which are immutable (so much so you have to clone a new one each time you want to alter its content)

It releases the constraints put on the ORM session and relies most of time on a DSL over the SQL (so portability doesn't matter)
But on the other hand, you have to look into the transaction details, the concurrency issues
List<Person> persons = queryFactory.selectFrom(person)
  .where(
    person.firstName.eq("John"),
    person.lastName.eq("Doe"))
  .fetch();

