How to change the name of an iOS app?
ios
I began an iPhone project the other day with a silly development code name, and now I want to change the name of the project since it's nearly finished. 
But I'm not sure how to do this with Xcode, trying the obvious of changing the application's name in the info.plist file, causes the signing process to go wrong (I think...) and my app won't launch giving me a Launcher error.
I guess I could make a new project and copy paste everything over, but it seems so primitive that I'm hoping for a more civilized solution.



Go to Targets in Xcode
"Get Info" on your project's target (your current silly development name)
Search for "Product Name" under "Packaging". Change the value of what you want the new program name to be.


Also: your target name may be the same as your app name - note that changing the target name does not change the app name - only the change in the target properties described below - will change the app name.

You change the bundle display name in the info.plist. It's as simple as that.
Changing the 'bundle display name' (as opposed to 'bundle name') is the only way to include characters like '+' in your applications name. Including special characters in the project name will cause an error when uploading to the app store!

In Xcode 3.2 just select the Project entry in the Groups & Files panel, then select the menu item Project -> Rename…  Worked for me. 

If you need to change the name of the Application as it appears on the iPhone's home screen, you need to do it in the Target configuration, not the project configuration. 

Expand the Targets group in Xcode, then single-click the item under that. It should share the name of your project, which is also the default name of the application that gets generated.
Press command-I to bring up the Info window, then navigate to the Build tag. 
Set the Configuration drop-down to read All Configurations.
Look for a setting called Product Name under the Packaging heading. 
Change that value to the name you want for your compiled applications and, in the immortal words of Bugs Bunny: Viola! Do a clean then build and your application will take on the new name.


In Xcode 4 search for "Product Name" under "Build Settings" tab of the target.

In Xcode 4 click on project name to start renaming.

This is how I changed in Xcode 4:

Click on your Target file (First Main file of the application). 
Go to Build Settings. 
Scroll down you will find a bar called "Packaging".
Under Packaging you will see Product Name,  you can change project name.


If you wanna change the name, that will be displayed on your screen, right under your icon, in Xcode 4, go to Targets->info->Bundle Display Name and change it to whatever you want.

From Xcode 4.2 and onwards, you can use one more option.
Just click once on .proj file name at the top in left navigation pane and it will be available for renaming.Rename it and the whole project will get renamed and not only the target.
Hope this helps

If you want to change display name only then you can directly change from property file(plist) of app.
You can add a new row with the following key : bundle display name
Here is an example for this 

When you use this the app name which you have given with this key will be display.
So you can do this simply.

A note on the bundle display name -- this is the right way to change the name in your app menu, but you'll likely have to reset content and settings in your iOS simulator before you see the change actually take effect.


Select the top most line to the left (with you project name, number of targets, etc).
Select the target you wish to rename.
Click on the name of the target again.
Type the new name.
Press enter.



1. Select Target



2. Select Info



3. Insert Bundle Display Name and set App Title



For changing application name only (that will display along with app icon) in xcode 4 or later:
Click on your project file icon from Groups & Files panel, choose Target -> Build Settings -> Packaging -> Product Name. Click on the row, a pop-up will come, type your new app name here.
For changing Project name only (that will display along with project icon) in xcode 4 or later:
Click on your project file icon from Groups & Files panel, choose Project(above targets) from right pane, just see at the far right pane(it will be visible only if you have enabled "Hide or show utilities").Look for project name.Edit it to new name you want to give your project.
Delete your app from simulator/device, clean and run.Changes should reflect.
That's it

In new versions of Xcode (Xcode 5 too) to change the name of the project follow this simple (detailed as possible) steps:
Note: In this example I'll change a hypothetical "Sample" name to a "Test" one. 

Click twice slowly on the project root in the project navigator and then it becomes editable. 

Rename the project.

After pressing 'ENTER' the assistant will suggest you to automatically change all project-name-related entries and will allow you to de-select some of them, if you want.

Press 'RENAME' and Xcode will do the rest. In the meanwhile Xcode may ask you about the option of making a snapshot of the project (it is very recommendable to do so).
In addition to renaming the project, you may want to rename the scheme so that it matches your new project name.

Repeat similar steps like 1 and 2, and press OK.


That's it.

Another scenario ...
The previous explanation was related to changing the project name, but chances are that you only need to change the display name that appears below the app icon in the home screen. These are the steps:

In the "Supporting Files" group locate the info.plist (or related) file
Locate the "Bundle display name" key and change the value to the new name.


Delete the "old" app from the simulator or any other testing device.
Clean and Rebuild your app again.
That's it, you will now see the new app name in your home screen.


The best way I like in xcode5 is to change product name in building settings. Search "product name" in "building settings", and change it.


For sake of gathering all relevant information in one place, here is the official answer to this question - and it is the only one that worked for me on Xcode 5.1.1
Just use the Identity and Type pane in Xcode.


I am using this script after I rename my iOS Project. It helps to change the directories name and make the names in sync. 
http://github.com/ytbryan/rename
NOTE: you will need to manually change the scheme's name.

Easiest way: select the TARGET name, double click on it, rename. 
You'll see your app's new name underneath the icon on your device or Simulator.

You can modify the Product Name without changing your Project Name (especially the directory).
Build Settings > search the keyword "product name" > update values

Using Javier's approach to rename my app works perfectly. There is just one small bit missing in the end that I wanted add. 
I still ended up getting a Mach-O Linker Error after a Clean and Rebuild. To resolve this; select yourProject(in the Project Navigator) > under Targets select yourProjectTests(the test target) > under the General tab, update the Host Application's value to the newly renamed project.

In Target>Build Setting>Product name field
you can edit that field here. 

The link below works for Xcode 6, especially if you are getting an error after trying to rename your project. Basically, just try building a new scheme of your app.
http://stackoverflow.com/a/27572164/4114835

I saw many ways to change your app name on homescreen, and i don't think the necessity of edit your .plist file or changing Build Settings of target is justified.
By default in Xcode 7.2 you even don't have 'bundle display name' in your plist file.
And by default, your 'Product name' in 'Build settings' tab of your target is equal to $(TARGET_NAME). IMHO it's convenient and didn't mean to change.
So you can simply change your Target name like hallski said in his comment for accepted answer. I made pic for it: 

Xcode 7? It's in the plist that your target uses


I think there is a bit of confusion:

you want to change the project name or
you want to change the App name on the iOS dashboard ?

usually is enough to change the latter, adding/modifying the BUNDLE DISLAY NAME key in plist.
Is better to leave project name untouched, but may be changed
Note that Bundle display Name CAN contain spaces and special chars, but project NOT. Doing so some cmd line tools will fails due to filename path rules.
And even more Bundle Display name can be localized.
So unless you are in early stage and need to change INTERNAL project name, go on using Bundle Display Name key.
