Programming a simple IRC (Internet-Relay-Chat) Client
ruby shoes irc
I started using IRC at a young age, and I have always been fascinated with it.  As a language exercise, I was thinking about programming a simple IRC client in Ruby with Shoes as a graphical front-end.  My question to you, kind-sirs, what do I need to become familiar with to start on this great adventure (besides shoes and Ruby of course)?  I imagine there is some-sort of specification on IRC Protocol.  Any pointers?


The IRC Specification is laid out in RFC 1459
http://www.irchelp.org/irchelp/rfc/rfc.html


I found this gem on Wikipedia. Sounds intimidating.

It's actually not.
Telnet onto an IRC Server and witness the simplicity of the protocol first hand. The hardest part is the handshake, after that its very simple.

I once implemented a client and a server with 2 more guys (as part of a course).
I can tell you that the RFC you were already linked to is great.
I'd also try simply sniffing a connection with an existing client to see for yourself how stuff work.

Not exactly an answer to your question, but it may be helpful. If you are using Ruby, I have found the Autumn Leaves project to be a great way to build an IRC bot using Ruby:
http://github.com/RISCfuture/autumn/tree/master
It is pretty much the Jibble of the Ruby world.

An earlier post mentioned RFC1459. While it is a very good introduction to IRC, it has actually been superseded by RFCs 2810-2813. Here is a more complete list of documentation you need to program anything IRC-related:

RFC1459 (original RFC; superseded, but still useful)
RFC2810 (IRC architecture)
RFC2811 (IRC channel management)
RFC2812 (IRC client protocol)
RFC2813 (IRC server protocol)
CTCP specification
DCC specification
Updated CTCP specification (not all clients support this)
ISupport (response code 005) draft (almost all servers support this nowadays)
Client capabilities (CAP command) draft (supported by some servers/clients)
IRCv3 standards and proposals (the future features of IRC, some of which are already widely supported)

