Available Build Tools (make, etc)?
build
There's a lot of questions on here regarding various niche build needs (.NET, continuous integration, etc) but, of course, my niche need is different.
Rather than asking a very specific question right now, I'd like a survey of available build tools (such as make, ant, etc) so I can ask a follow up question more intelligently if needed.
In your answer, please include:

ONE build tool
Link to the main page about that tool
If you know some pros and cons (ie, runs on windows with cygwin, or .NET specific, etc) then list some (not required - the name and link are required)

If your build tool is already in an answer, comment on it adding pros/cons/limitations/experiences.  Feel free to add as many answers as you like as long as they don't already exist - but don't put several build tools into one answer.
Please be aware that if you duplicate answers you may be downvoted - add additional information about a given build in the comments.  Ideally these comments will be incorporated into the answer over time.


GNU Make
http://www.gnu.org/software/make/

Apache Ant
Pro:

many task/plugins
runs on many platforms
very mature
is supported by many IDEs, Continuous-Integration-Tools etc.

Con:

requires Java


NAnt
http://nant.sourceforge.net/
Similar to Ant, a build tool for .Net

MSBuild
http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/wea2sca5(VS.80).aspx

SCons
Build scripts are Python scripts.  Supposed to work on Linux, Windows, Mac OS X.

Apache Maven
Pros:

Automatic dependency management
Utilizes convention over configuration (enforces consistent project directory structures)
Projects that use maven can be built in minutes
Excellent support for standard java/Java EE project builds
Works well in a team environment (supports "team" configurations)
Built in release/versioning concepts
Integrates with popular Java IDEs
Growing support in java OSS community

Cons:

Steep learning curve (esp. compared to Ant)
Poor online documentation (the new book is excellent though)
Sometimes surprising behavior
Very java-centric
XML configuration driven


Rake
Ruby version of make
Pros:

Clean idiomatic ruby syntax
Rake files are written in ruby, so leverages ruby itself rather than proprietary file format or XML
Ruby on Rails tightly integrated with it

Cons:

Requires ruby, which is not always available
No built-in packaging support/versioning/dependency management (see rubygems)


CruiseControl/CruiseControl .Net
http://cruisecontrol.sourceforge.net/
Pros

Can use various build and TDD tools depending on version chosen
Automate when builds happen and what kind - full release build or changed code build
Can automatically run tests (nUnit, jUnit, Fitnesse, etc.) on a build to ensure that all tests still pass when new code is checked into the project.
Integrates with source control
Error reporting and notification when builds fail

Cons

Error reporting isn't always in a nice pretty to read format
Set up of projects should be well thought out and all projects monitored should use certain patterns to make integration setup more efficient.


CMake
Cross-platform build system generator. It can generate Makefile or project files for Visual Studio, Eclipse CDT, KDevelop, Code::Blocks, etc. Automatic dependency analysis for C, C++, Fortran, Java.

premake
Build script generator. Uses Lua to describe the build. It can generate Makefile or project files for Visual Studio, Code::Blocks, CodeLite, SharpDevelop, MonoDevelop, etc. Built-in support for C, C++, C#, including things like resources and ASP.NET. Mono support.

PSake (pronounced "Sake")
Pros - 

Powershell

Cons -

Powershell :)

This project is fairly new, looks interesting, and would be very powerful, since it's ".NET at the command line".  Unfortunately, I don't know very many people who take the time to learn Powershell.

Jam family.

Jam
FTJam
BJam

BJam is based on FTJam, which in turn is based on Jam. Small, fast, portable. Automatic dependency analysis for C, C++. It is not a generator -- it does not generate any Makefile or other build files for secondary build systems.

FinalBuilder
Pros

Visual and GUI-oriented unlike ant or make
Lots of built-in actions
Script builder for your own actions
Integrates easily with cc.net

Cons

Only runs on Windows
Not free, but you get good value for your money

They also have a tool called Automise that does more system-oriented tasks.

Team City
Pros

All available here

Cons

Can be memory intensive


cons
Pros:

Uses Perl, if you like that sort of thing
Haven't used it otherwise :-)

Cons:

Hard to Google for!
Not actively developed?


UppercuT - 
Some good explanations here: UppercuT
Pros -

Super easy to get started - Automated Builds as easy as (1) solution name, (2) source control path, (3) company name for most projects!!!
Limited knowledge of NAnt necessary.

Cons - 

Only available for .NET


NUBuild (pronounced "New-Build")
This is the latest and pretty advanced .Net build tool (a very intelligent one) called NUBuild that allows you to build VB.Net and C# projects. Its extremely lightweight, open source and at the same time easy to setup and provides almost no-touch maintenance. 

Easy to use command line interface
Ability to target all .Net framework version i.e. 1.1, 2.0, 3.0 and 3.5
Supports XML based configuration
Supports both project and file references 
Automatically generates the “complete ordered build list” for a given project
Ability to detect and display circular dependencies
Perform parallel build 
Ability to handle proxy assemblies
Easily integrated with Cruise-Control.Net continuous integration system
Version management capability
Notification feature

http://nubuild.codeplex.com/
It's best the build tool we have seen so far!

Bakefile
Bakefile is cross-platform, cross-compiler native makefiles generator. It takes compiler-independent description (XML) of build tasks as input and generates native makefile (autoconf's Makefile.in, Visual C++ project, bcc makefile etc.).
Bakefile's task is to generate native makefiles, so that people can keep using their favorite tools. There are other cross-platform make solutions, but they either aren't native and require the user to use unfamiliar tools (Boost.Build) or they are too limited (qmake).
