How do I best display CheckBoxes in SQL Server Reporting Services?
reporting-services reportingservices-2005
One of the many quirks of Reporting Services we've run across is the complete and utter lack of a CheckBox control or even something remotely similar.
We have a form that should appear automatically filled out based on information pulled from a database.  We have several bit datatype fields.  Printing out "True" or "False" just looks silly, as this is supposed to look like a form that has been auto-filled out, so we want to have a series of checkboxes and labels that are either checked or unchecked.
We are running SSRS 2005 but I'm not aware of SSRS 2008 having added a CheckBox control.  Even if it did, we'd need to have an alternative for the time being.  The best we've found so far is:

use Wingdings
use images
use text boxes with borders and print a blank/space or a capital X

All three approaches require IIF expression shenanigans.
The Wingdings approach seemed to work acceptably, and was the most aesthetically pleasing except that for whatever reason it didn't always print correctly.  More importantly, PDF exports, also for whatever reason, converted all fonts (generally) to Arial and so we got funky letters instead of the Windings dingbats.
Images, being a pixel-based raster, don't do so well when printed along side vector stuff like text.  Unless handled carefully, they tend to stretch, pixelate, and do other unprofessional looking things.
While these methods do work (some with limitations as mentioned above) none of them are particularly elegant.
Are we missing something obvious?  Not so obvious?  Does someone at Microsoft have a good reason why such a control was not provided in SSRS 2000, let alone 2 versions and 8 years later?  This can't be the first time this issue has come up...


I, along with others in my shop, have used images, toggling the hidden attribute based on the field value (true or false).  We haven't had any problems with blurring or scaling, unless we tried to increase the scale of the image beyond 100% obviously.
Another option I've used is similar to the wingdings idea, but I just use a plain old "X".  On our forms at least, it is not uncommon for someone to use an X in a box instead of a check mark, so it looks completely acceptable.  Plus, you don't have to worry about strange characters when printing.
As for why Microsoft does not include a checkbox control, I can't answer that as I've been wondering the same thing myself for a long time now.

I think there is a bug with SSRS and embedding font characters above 128 (some thing todo with ANSI encoding). Basically you can use 1-128 fine, the rest show up as tall rectangular blocks. 
I like NY's idea of the textbox with a border and an optional X - this sounds simple and effective.

What I have used to display a check box (or ballot box):
1- create textbox (that will become your check box)
2- change font to Arial Unicode MS
3- in the expression window use: 
        ChrW(&H2611) for a filled-in checkbox
        ChrW(&H2610) for an empty checkbox

Besides the different methods already presented, as of SQL Server 2008 R2 there's a built-in control that can be used for checkbox-alike functionality: the Indicator!
Have a look here for details on how to use it: http://blog.hoegaerden.be/2012/08/04/displaying-checkboxes-in-an-ssrs-report/
To be able to use a field of type bit, you'll have to cast it to int first. This can be done either in the dataset query or by adding a calculated field to the dataset.
If you want the NULLs to come up as yellow, then you'll need to build the expression that way so it takes that requirement into account as well.
Here's a possible expression for a calculated field:
=Switch(
    IsNothing(Fields!YourBoolean.Value), 50,
    Fields!YourBoolean.Value = False, 0,
    Fields!YourBoolean.Value = True, 100)

Depending on the meaning of your fields - is False good or bad - you may need to swap the zero and 100.

You can also use a string calculated field like "[X]" or "[ ]". It's less pretty than the textbox with border but you don't have to put a specific control for the value and you can fill table or matrix with this.
At least there is some solution for the checkbox. I'm still looking for full justification for my text (In fact I'm looking for another solution than SSRS know).
ACCESS 97 could make this kind of thing but not SQL SERVER 2012.

I just wanna share the idea on this blog. SSRS: How to Display Checkbox on Report

First create a textbox 
Then change the font family to Wingdings
Insert an expression on the textbox and write this expressions.
=IIF(Fields!Active.Value,chr(254),"o")

Fields!Active.Value could be anything from your query that should return a boolean value 1 or 0.
Then click Preview and see the checkbox ;)

More styles can be selected on the blog that I shared above. 
Here is an example of my output 
