Does opacity:0 have exactly the same effect as visibility:hidden
html css
If so, does it effectively deprecate the visibility property?
(I realize that Internet Explorer does not yet support this CSS2 property.)

Comparisons of layout engines
See also: What is the difference between visibility:hidden and display:none


I'm not entirely sure of this, but I think screen readers don't read things that are set to visibility hidden, but they may read things regardless of their opacity.
That's the only difference I can think of.

Im not sure entirely, but this is how i do cross browser transparency:
opacity: 0.6;
-moz-opacity: 0.6;
filter: alpha(opacity=60);

objects with Visibility:hidden still have shape, they just arent visible. opacity zero elements can still be clicked and react to other events.

What Phil says is true.
IE supports opacity though:
filter:alpha(opacity=0);


Here is a compilation of verified information from the various answers.
Each of these CSS properties is in fact unique. In addition to rendering an element not visible, they have the following additional effect(s):

Collapses the space that the element would normally occupy
Responds to events (e.g., click, keypress)
Participates in the taborder


                     collapse events taborder
opacity: 0              No     Yes     Yes
visibility: hidden      No     No      No
visibility: collapse    *      No      No
display: none          Yes     No      No

* Yes inside a table element, otherwise No.


The properties have different semantic meanings. While semantic CSS sounds like it may be silly, as other users have mentioned it has an impact on devices like screen readers -- where semantics impact the accessibility of a page.

No.
Elements with opacity create new stacking context. 
Also, CSS spec doesn't define this, but elements with opacity:0 are clickable, and elements with visibility:hidden are not.

No it does not. There is a big difference. 
They are similar because you can see through the element if visibility is hidden or opacity is 0, however
opacity: 0         : you can not click on elements behind it.
visibility: hidden : you can click on elements behind it.
