Shutterfly Order API . 
asp.net api order
I found this site
http://www.shutterfly.com/documentation/api_OrderImage.sfly
but there are no examples of actually walking through the whole process.  Does anyone have any good documentation on using this API to take a local photo and allow someone to order a print via shutterfly?


I went through these steps:

Sign up for an account
Sign up as a developer

Create an application (I called mine Test). Note the generated Application Id and Shared Secret
The Shutterfly API page has a list of references for various Domain-specific APIs:

Address Book
Album Data
Folder Data
Go To Shutterfly UE
Image Upload
Interactive Sign-in
Image Request
Order
Pricing
Seamless Sign-in
User Data
User Authentication

Each uses RESTful principles. The documentation looks pretty comprehensive to me, if you need some background, here's links for RESTful APIs and ROME you may find useful
There is also an API Explorer section on the same page that allows you to test the methods via a form on their site. For example this form for CRUD operations on the album data.
Based on your comment, for your requirements, you would:

Use the Album GET to list albums, then get the data for a specific album.
Use the Image Get request to retrieve the image data, so your friend can verify the image(s) they want to purchase.
Authenticate the user
Use the Pricing POST request to get the estimated pricing for the image.
User the Order POST to submit the order over https


Update: Found a page describing using a Greasemonkey script which adds Shutterfly print ordering capability to Flickr. This might provide the basis for a solution.

For Reference:
The original link above is a middle step of the Shutterfly Open API ordering procedure.  
The whole process goes through a series of steps allowing you to control much more than just pushing photos into somebody's album in Shutterfly.
With this process, your application can actually carry out the entire procedure of: 

specifying the images and the sizes and quantities, or other products
calculating shipping, taxes, and totals
paying, and
launching the processing

It also includes the ability to see when the packages will be delivered and arrive.  
Thus if you have a solid application for mapping your images onto paper and products, you can pretty much control the entire process.  
Once the order is submitted, it will appear on the user's account at Shutterfly who the order was associated with.
Kudos to Shutterfly for making such a powerful tool!  It would be great if other printing facilities had similar tools.
