Server monitoring and alerting software?
monitoring nagios cacti
What software does everyone use to monitor hardware? I know about nagios and cacti, but does anyone use any other software?


SolarWinds IPMonitor is pretty useful. A bit like cacti or nagios, but more pleasing to the eye. Windows only, and not free (not even as in "free beer"), though. ;-)

I have used both mon and munin. I like munin because of its simplicity and flexibility.

http://www.zabbix.com/ is fairly good too - comparable to Nagios and Cacti at least.

OpenNMS is quite good, if you have a large number of servers and need to do very comprehensive monitoring.

My company just started using Nagios mainly to keep track of uptime. What are its difficients that you would look for another solution ? Is it scale or lack of monitoring capability ?

Consider using a service like Alertra (alertra.com) if you don't want to run the monitoring server yourself. We have been using this for about a year and have been very pleased with it.

We use Zenoss for monitoring our systems.  We found it a lot easier to work with then OpenNMS.

We use NAGIOS for everything, and god on a lower level/within a rails application.
I'd be glad to give you more details if you gave us more details about what specifically you're looking for or trying to accomplish.

For server monitoring without needing to install any software on your server take a look at my company ServerMonitoringHQ.com Server Monitoring

You could use RHQ (http://rhq-project.org/ ). While it is not too strong on the hardware side, it provides support for many services. Graphing and alerting are available out of the box and suppor for new/other kinds of managed resources can be provided via plugins.
RHQ is open source and has just recently released version 4.0 with a nice new GUI. RHQ also offers a command line interface hat allows scripting.

To monitor the hardware of HP Proliant Servers and HP Blade centers i can recommend Nagios (or Shinken if you want to be avant-garde) together with the plugin check_hpasm. 
