Windows Mobile - What scripting platforms are available?
windows-mobile scripting sysadmin administration
We have a number of users with Windows Mobile 6 and need to apply minor changes. eg. update a registry setting. One option is push and execute an executable file using our device management software.
I'd like this to be a little more friendly for the admins who are familiar with scripting in VBScript/JScript etc. What are the options for scripting on Windows Mobile devices?


I work on windows mobile full time and have never really come across a good Windows Mobile scripting implementation unfortunately.  For some reason MS has never seen the need for it.  For example, even though you can actually get a command console on WM, it does not support running batch files, even though all the commands are still there and it would be relatively easy.  There is definitely not a VBScript engine I've ever heard of nor JScript.  There is PythonCE but the WM specific support is minimal and you don't get access to a lot of WM only things.
Also, I've done a lot of work with a company called SOTI which has a product called MobiControl that does incorporate a basic scripting engine. Though most of the commands are specific to their system and actually have to be run from a desktop-side management console.
Given all of the times I have tried to find a good scripting engine for WM myself you would think I would've just written one ;)
So, sorry, but the basic answer is no, there is not a scripting engine available for VB in the context that you specified.

The closest thing to a scripting environment on Windows Mobile is the Configuration Service Provider interface.  While it is not a scripting language per se, it does allow one to do a lot of the same type of things such as modify registry settings, copy and delete files and directories, install and uninstall applications and much more.
Mike Calligaro has a great article on how to write scripts and how to get them from your desktop onto the device in various ways.  One of them is certain to work for you.

Once option that the devs over at xda-developers seem to enjoy is Mortscript
I have never bothered to use it, but I have used many cab installers that distribute mortscript so that they can do various tasks

There is also a Visual Basic Runtime to run VBScript

Try Lua:
Oficial Lua page: http://www.lua.org/ 
Lua WinCe / Mobile port: http://www.magma.com.ni/sw/wince/lua/
