Changing a Property into a Method - any side effects?
.net
I have a class that has some properties. And I want something that calculates a Score out of these properties. Since this is a trivial task (some additions and divisions, but nothing spectacular).
So naturally, the question is: "When to use a Property with some code in the getter, and when to use a function?", and that question was already answered.
Now, I wonder about one thing though: If - against all expectations - I ever needed to make this Getter so complicated that it should be a function (for example, because I need to put data in or because it can throw an exception or whatever), is it easy to change a Property into a Method?
Of course, it seems really trivial, just changing
public double Score {
    get {
        return Math.Round(A + B / C * D,3);
    }
}

to
public double Score(){
    return Math.Round(A + B / C * D,3);
}

But I wonder: Are there any side effects? Is anything going to break when changing stuff around like this? I can only ever see this as a possible problem when Reflection is involved, but what in situations where I have 2 Assemblies - one that defines the class and one that uses the class - and only change the one that contains the class without recompiling the consumer assembly. Is that a possible source of "weird bugs that are nearly impossible to track" or is it completely safe to change Properties to Methods?


Pull up reflector, you'll see that your properties already are methods :)

No. There are no side affects to this at all. 

Pull up reflector, you'll see that
  your properties already are methods

Under the hood the get and set accessors in a property are simply converted to get_MyPropertyName() and set_MyPropertyName() methods. This is also why you can (but typically shouldn't) add parameters to a property. 
The only "gotcha" is that in C# you will need to add "()" to any existing calls.
Also

according to the coding guidelines, a
  property name usually is noun (i.e.
  Score), but methods should describe
  actions (verb), so more proper name is
  GetScore() or CalculateScore()


If you are going to change from property to method and allow the compiler to show you where to add the parethesis, you could get subtle bugs  as object ting = thing.score ting would be a boxed double for the property version of score but a delegate for a method version of score therefore different code path would result where:
public void erm(double param){ //stuff here}
public void erm(func<double> param) {// different stuff here}

when you call with
erm(thing.score)

with the property versus method version of score.

One side affects is breaking all the calling code to this property.  You will have update all callers to us the method signature rather then property

As others already pointed out - nothing to worry. I just post to clarify that according to the coding guidelines, a property name usually is noun (i.e. Score), but methods should describe actions (verb), so more proper name is GetScore() or CalculateScore() :)
Grammar Nazi in action :)
