Hosted subversion recommendations or suggestions
svn hosting saas
I'm investigating using hosted subversion for a new project at work and was wondering if anyone had any experiences they would share.
I've personally used Beanstalk for small projects at home, but not with mulitple users or a large repository.
What/who have you used?
For what size/type of project?
What was your experience? (Uptime, performance, customer service, etc.)


If your project is open-source, you might want consider Google Code.
I've found it to be excellent!

I used wush.net for a while for small personal projects and never had any problems... service was reliable and speedy.  I terminated my account there once I moved my web hosting to a provider that also supported svn.

wush.net has been awesome - great support
I use it for personal projects as well as two freelance projects (one with a few hundred thousand lines of code)
None have large number of developers, but that should not be a problem
svnrepository is also good - but a lot less hand holding.
I switched to wush only because I did not want to have to do so much of the admin - mostly for the trac stuff.  They also had good support, but you are responsible for a lot more of the admin.
I have not experienced any downtime that I noticed.  (either for svn or trac)
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/297153/can-you-recommend-a-svn-closed-source-project-hosting-site#297180
there are also other SO questions on this topic...
a search of svn and hosting should bring them up

Take a look at Unfuddle.... They have a free plan plus some other nice project management type functions.

I'm using DreamHost because I really didn't like the restrictions imposed by the "subversion-only" hosts, e.g. really small space or few repositories.
I want to be able to check in everything related to the build without having to think about the space limitation.
It's cheap ($10 a month) and practically unlimited disk space (and unlimited users and repositories).  Haven't experienced any downtime so for but is sometimes a bit slow.
The only downside is that they have subversion v. 1.4.2 and I haven't had great success upgrading.  But someone with a Linux experience would probably be able to do it in no time :)

I Agree with mikeymo Unfuddle is a great ticketing and subversion host.  They have a free account that I have been using for almost a year now and is great.  It takes so much work out of development, especially when dealing with tasks and related commits.
