Third Party Controls for ASP.NET with Ajax Support
asp.net asp.net-ajax
Ours is an upcoming company, so we cannot buy two three third party controls and find out by ourselves which the best one is.(One of the better solutions)
We have a budget to buy just one.
So we would like to know which is third party control is the best to use in ASP.NET based on your experiences.
And also I definitely saw a question asked already here.
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/215993/best-3rd-party-aspnet-grid-control
Still asking this because

Wanna know not just about grid, i wanna know about the whole set.
Didn't see many answers for that.

So please provide us some advice on how to proceed.
Our requirements are

Bug Free working
Speed
Good documentation
Excellent Support Team

Also is there a third party ListView?
Regards,
Naveen


For all those requirements, there's only two companies to choose from: Telerik and DevExpress.  Both have fantastic support and incredible ASP.NET products.  They release often, and are known to be constantly adding new controls.  I had to decide between the two about a year ago, and went with DevExpress because of the productivity tools included.
The difference I see between these two companies and larger competitors like Infragistics is they are dedicated to making the best quality and best performing products possible.

I would add Componentone to the list of good companyes who make great components. Check out their studio for Asp.Net package. Full of nice components. Most of them use Ajax. You can check out samples of all components on their homepage and you can download and try before buy. 
The licenses are developer-based and you dont have to pay anything for redist.
They have great support and lots of samples and code so its easy to consume the components.
www.componentone.com
http://componentone.com/SuperProducts/StudioASPNET/

We use Telerik. The overall experience is good. For us, the main pitfall is page size. E.g., single combo-box with 50 items may generate 40kb of HTML!

We've been using Telerik for some time now in my company.  I believe we've renewed our subscription for the third time this year, and they just keep getting better and better!  Their support is fantastics also!
I haven't used any DevExpress ASP.NET controls so I can't compare.
