Visual Studio 2008 debugging issue
c# visual-studio-2008 debugging
I'm working in VS 2008 and have three projects in one solution.  I'm debugging by attaching to a .net process invoked by a third party app (SalesLogix, a CRM app).  
Once it has attached to the process and I attempt to set a breakpoint in one of the projects, it doesn't set a breakpoint in that file.  It actually switches the current tab to another file in another project and sets a breakpoint in that document.  If the file isn't open, it even goes so far as to open it for me.  I can't explain this.  I've got no clue.  Anyone seen such odd behavior?  I wouldn't believe it if I wasn't seeing it myself.
A little more info: if I set a breakpoint before attaching, it shows the "red dot" and says no symbols loaded...no problem...I expect that.  When I attach and invoke my .net code from SalesLogix and switch back to VS, my breakpoint is completely gone (not even a warning that the source doesn't match the debug file).  When I attempt to manually load the debug file, then I get a message that the symbol file does not match the module.  The .pdb and the .dll are timestamped the same, so I'm stumped.
Anyone have any ideas?
Thx,
Jeff


I saw this functionality in older versions of VS.Net (2003 I think).  It may still exist in current versions, but I haven't encountered it.  Seems that files with the same name, even in different directories confuse VS.Net, and it ends up setting a break point in a file with the same name.  May only happen if the classes in the file both have the same name also.  So much for namespaces I guess.  
You also may want to check your build configuration to make sure that all the projects are in fact building in debug mode.  I know I've been caught a couple times when the configuration got changed somehow for the solution, and some projects weren't compiling in debug mode.

Kibbee, you were right!  It was two files with the same name in different folders.  I was setting the breakpoint in the correct file on line 58 - it was putting the breakpoint on the other file at line 58.  I was finally able to set a breakpoint by using the "Debug-->New Breakpoint-->Break at Function Name" menu option and entering my function name.  It stopped exactly like it should have then.  
I agree - so much for namespaces, right?  Damn thing cost me a couple of hours. Oh, well...at least it's solved and I know why.
Thx for the answer and thx to Matt for his reply, too!
