Alternatives to System.exit(1)
java process
For various reasons calling System.exit is frowned upon when writing Java Applications, so how can I notify the calling process that not everything is going according to plan?
Edit: The 1 is a standin for any non-zero exit code.


It's frowned upon for normal exits.  If "not everything is going according to plan", then System.exit is fine.
Update:  I should add that I assume your '1' has meaning that is documented somewhere.

It can be dangerous / problematic in web servlet environments also. 
Throwing an Exception is generally considered the other alternative.

Our company's policy is that it's OK (even preferred) to call System.exit(-1), but only in init() methods.  I would definitely think twice before calling it during a program's normal flow.

Throwing exceptions is the best way to send information about a certain error up and out of the app.
A number doesn't tell you as much as:
Exception at thread 'main': FileNotFoundException "The file 'foo' doesn't exist"

(or something close to that)

I agree with the "throw an Exception" crowd. One reason is that calling System.exit makes your code difficult to use if you want other code to be able to use it. For example, if you find out that your class would be useful from a web app, or some kind of message consuming app, it would be nice to allow those containers the opportunity to deal with the failure somehow. A container may want to retry the operation, decide to log and ignore the problem, send an email to an administrator, etc.
An exception to this would be your main() method; this could trap the Exception, and call System.exit() with some value that can be recognized by the calling process or shell script.

The use of System.exit is frowned upon when the 'application' is really a sub-application (e.g. servlet, applet) of a larger Java application (server): in this case the System.exit could stop the JVM and hence also all other sub-applications. In this situation, throwing an appropriate exception, which could be caught and handled by the application framework/server is the best option.
If the java application is really meant to be run as a standalone application, there is nothing wrong with using System.exit. in this case, setting an exit value is probably the easiest (and also most used) way of communicating failure or success to the parent process.

I think throwing an exception is what you should do when something goes wrong. This way, if your application is not running as a stand-alone app the caller can react to it and has some information about what went wrong. It is also easier for debugging purposes because you as well get a better idea about what went wrong when you see a stack trace.
One important thing to note is that when the exception reaches the top level and therefore causes the VM to quit the VM returns a return code of 1, therefore outside applications that use the return code see that something went wrong.
The only case where I think System.exit() makes sense is when your app is meant to be called by applications which are not Java and therefore have to use return codes to see if your app worked or not and you want those applications to have a chance to react differently on different things going wrong, i.e. you need different return codes.

System.exit() will block, and create a deadlock if the thread that initiated it is used in a shutdown hook.
