How to write a Web Service for Google App Engine?
xml web-services google-app-engine soap
I am simply wondering how to write a Web Service (XML - SOAP) for Google App Engine? I am really new with Python and I have been looking for example for a while, but no chance. 
Does anybody could point me out any article or simply could give me an example of a Web Service in Python with Google App Engine?
Thanks!


Here is a Python Web Services project that might be helpful.
EDIT
And here is a SOAP consuming demonstration....

If you want to do something with App Engine specifically, there are libraries that will make it much faster on your end. I'd recommend looking at the XML-RPC and REST examples. 
http://appengine-cookbook.appspot.com/recipe/xml-rpc-server-using-google-app-engine/
http://github.com/fczuardi/gae-rest/tree/master

I was curious about this myself and not finding anything I decided to try to get something to work. The short answer is that it turns out a SOAP service can actually be done using the latest alpha ZSI library. However it isn't simple and I didn't do much more than a simple request so it could fall apart with a complex type. I'll try to find time to write a tutorial on how to do it and edit this answer with more detail.
Unless this is a hard requirement I would do what jamtoday says and go with a REST or RPC service. The SOAP way could be filled with trouble.
Update: For anyone interested I've written a tutorial on how to deploy a SOAP service to the Google App Engine. It is long process so I'm just linking to it instead of pasting it all here.

I know this is an old thread but just in case if someone happens to read this.
I have just start an open source project for creating web services on GAE.
Project site: http://code.google.com/p/webserviceservlet/
Hope this is helpful.
EDIT: 
Just noticed that this is a python question and the link project is java project....

You could take a look at the Bottle framework. It's a Python framework which with you can easily create a REST api.
In my opinion, REST is definitely better than SOAP. It can be easily consumed by any software able to speak http, and it's faster to implement.
