Matrix Template Library matrix inversion
c++ math stl boost linear-algebra
I'm trying to inverse a matrix with version Boost boost_1_37_0 and MTL mtl4-alpha-1-r6418. I can't seem to locate the matrix inversion code. I've googled for examples and they seem to reference lu.h that seems to be missing in the above release(s). Any hints?
@Matt suggested copying lu.h, but that seems to be from MTL2 rather than MTL4. I'm having trouble compiling with MTL2 with VS05 or higher. 
So, any idea how to do a matrix inversion in MTL4?
Update: I think I understand Matt better and I'm heading down this ITL path.


Looks like you use lu_factor, and then lu_inverse.  I don't remember what you have to do with the pivots, though.  From the documentation.
And yeah, like you said, it looks like their documentations says you need lu.h, somehow:

How do I invert a matrix?
The first question you should ask
  yourself is whether you want to really
  compute the inverse of a matrix or if
  you really want to solve a linear
  system. For solving a linear system of
  equations, it is not necessary to
  explicitly compute the matrix inverse.
  Rather, it is more efficient to
  compute triangular factors of the
  matrix and then perform forward and
  backward triangular solves with the
  factors. More about solving linear
  systems is given below. If you really
  want to invert a matrix, there is a
  function lu_inverse() in mtl/lu.h.

If nothing else, you can look at lu.h on their site.

I've never used boost or MTL for matrix math but I have used JAMA/TNT.
This page http://wiki.cs.princeton.edu/index.php/TNT shows how to take a matrix inverse. The basic method is library-independent:

factor matrix M into XY where X and Y are appropriate factorizations (LU would be OK but for numerical stability I would think you would want to use QR or maybe SVD).
solve I = MN = (XY)N for N with the prerequisite that M has been factored; the library should have a routine for this.


In MTL4 use this:
mtl::matrix::inv(Matrix const &A, MatrixOut &Inv);

Here is a link to the api.
