What software to use for a multistage development environment?
version-control project-management project-planning
For me a multistage environment contains environments for development, testing, quality assurance, maybe a client review stage and finally production. It should allow easy collaboration between developers, project status tracking and easy deployment of the application to any stage for a specific version. 
You can propose specific tools for specific application types but I think the question is general enough. Is there any software package ready to use out of the box?


For a larger enterprise with multiple software systems being developed/released concurrently, I think you will probably need a few different tools to manage all of this.
In a Microsoft environment, TFS provides collaborative development, source control, and dev task management (including bug tracking and resolution, with a little customization) as well as CI/automated build.  But it doesn't really do much for you after the build is complete, you have to set up your own QA tooling and deployment tools/protocols.

There is a tool called Capistrano. This is written in Ruby and allows you to do the things you have described. Apache Maven may also provide this functionality but I havent used it.

You can use anything that works.
Even CVS ( and I speak from experience there)
You just need to bolt on some SCM like SCMBug and you're good to go.
SCMBug works with a number of VCS solutions.

We use CruiseControl.NET to automatically push source control checkins out to a dev server. This allows people to regression test their changes in real time.
We then use a series of scripts to robocopy the build to other environments. 
For Example:

Developer completes a change and checks into source control
CruiseControl detects the change and builds the new code and drops into Dev.
Developer is able to test the change in a enviroment that mirrors production.
This repeats until all changes are done and tested. 
A script is ran that copies Dev to Test.
Dev is now frozen while business owners UAT on the Test enviroment. If a defect is found, it is fixed in dev and then promoted back to Test.
Once UAT passes, a script is ran that copies the build to the final production farm.
At this point, developers are free to push code back to Dev for the next round of work.

