Is there a better Windows Console Window?
windows command-line console terminal command-line-interface
I find working on the command line in Windows frustrating, primarily because the console window is wretched to use compared to terminal applications on linux and OS X such as "rxvt", "xterm", or "Terminal".  Major complaints:

No standard copy/paste.  You have to turn on "mark" mode and it's only available from a multi-level popup triggered by the (small) left hand corner button.  Then copy and paste need to be invoked from the same menu
You can't arbitrarily resize the window by dragging, you need to set a preference (back to the multi-level popup) each time you want to resize a window
You can only make the window so big before horizontal scroll bars enter the picture. Horizontal scroll bars suck.
With the cmd.exe shell, you can't navigate to folders with \\netpath notation (UNC?), you need to map a network drive.  This sucks when working on multiple machines that are going to have different drives mapped

Are there any tricks or applications, (paid or otherwise), that address these issue?


Try Console 2.

Console is a Windows console window enhancement. Console features include: multiple tabs, text editor-like text selection, different background types, alpha and color-key transparency, configurable font, different window styles 


Take a look at Take Command.

Take Command is a comprehensive interactive GUI and command line environment that makes using the Windows command prompt and creating batch files easy and far more powerful.

(Take Command is, however, "not free".)

Take Command. This one has been around for a long time (formerly 4DOS). I used this on Windows NT 3.5 (!) and loved it.
Cygwin lets you run X on Windows, so you can fire up xterm or whatever terminal app you prefer, and also get the benefit of using a UNIX shell.

I've had these issues too for years on Windows, but I recently found this project: 
Console
It still requires "mark mode" for copy/paste, but at least it's available from a right-click contextual menu (so you don't need to move the mouse to the top left and then move it again to the text you want to select)
UNC paths are not supported by cmd.exe but they are supported by PowerShell.
(Console can be configured to use any shell, including cmd.exe and PowerShell)

Console
From documentation:

NOTE: Console is NOT a shell.
  Therefore, it does not implement shell
  features like command-line completion,
  syntax coloring, command history, etc.
Console is simply a nice-looking front
  end for a shell of your choice
  (cmd.exe, 4NT, bash, etc.) Other
  command-line utilities can also be
  used as 'shells' by Console.

As a programming shell one can use ipython.

I'm using Terminals for remote connection via Telnet, RDC, SSH, ...
Combines most used protocolls in one program.
URL: http://www.codeplex.com/Terminals

I use Cygwin with Poderosa.


Turn on quickedit mode (but selection is still rectangular instead of line-wrapped)
Resizing by dragging works for me
You can change the buffer size which will impact when scrollbars appear
pushd \\server\share

Even with those, cmd.exe isn't a great console.  See all the other replies and the earlier stackoverflow questions on the same subject.  The "Console" project from sourceforge looks pretty good.

Why not use Putty?

I use rxvt from cygwin.  It behaves very much like an xterm.

I think you will love PowerCMD which you can work 4 command windows at the same time. Also, you can use many extra commands inside the PowerCMD.
PowerCMD

Use Gow.exe  ..
This will make your DOS-Prompt as Linux terminal...
else 
Use ZOC.exe...its Trial-period terminal...
else
Install Git .. it gives a bash-console from where u can use unix commands, partially

There is a small program mo.exe on github that solves the first three issues: 
https://github.com/boolship/Mo
It runs in normal DOS console window, Git Bash on Windows, etc.
update:
That link is now deprecated, use: https://github.com/boolship/MoDi

I personally use Mintty. Therefore I use Cygwin (because thats the only shell it supports, as far as I know).
BTW There is another question: better command for Windows? I found.

Sorry for the self-promotion, I'm the author of another Console Emulator, not mentioned here.
ConEmu is opensource console emulator with tabs, which represents multiple consoles and simple GUI applications as one customizable GUI window.
Initially, the program was designed to work with Far Manager (my favorite shell replacement - file and archive management, command history and completion, powerful editor). But ConEmu can be used with any other console application or simple GUI tools (like PuTTY for example). ConEmu is a live project, open to suggestions.
A brief excerpt from the long list of options:

Latest versions of ConEmu may set up itself as default terminal for Windows
Use any font installed in the system, or copied to a folder of the program (ttf, otf, fon, bdf)
Run selected tabs as Administrator (Vista+) or as selected user
Windows 7 Jump lists and Progress on taskbar
Integration with DosBox (useful in 64bit systems to run DOS applications)
Smooth resize, maximized and fullscreen window modes
Scrollbar initially hidden, may be revealed by mouseover or checkbox in settings
Optional settings (e.g. pallette) for selected applications
User friendly text and block selection (from keyboard or mouse), copy, paste, text search in console
ANSI X3.64 and Xterm 256 color

Far Manager users will acquire shell style drag-n-drop, thumbnails and tiles in panles, tabs for editors and viewers, true colors and font styles (italic/bold/underline).
PS. Far Manager supports UNC paths (\\server\share\...)
