Tool to test Website accessibility
accessibility
Can you suggest a tool for testing accessibility and section 508/ADA compliance of a Website with MS Share Point and .Net 2.0 as the underlying platform?


Here you will find a complete list compiled by W3C. Most of these are platform independent.

In my experience, testing Sharepoint for accessibility is not worth it. Even if you've used the Accessibility Toolkit for Sharepoint (AKS) with Sharepoint 2007, the end result is far from accessible.
The trouble is that accessibility was not, and still is not a big consideration for MS when they made Sharepoint. Everything depends on table layout, and screenreaders are given a nightmare to deal with.
There are a few online tools - some will help validate your output, others pretend to test you for accessibility (TAW). 
The problem is that many of the guidelines under WCAG are just too arbitrary, and will never be testable by an automated tool. This may change with WCAG 2.
Anyway, wish you the best trying to make Sharepoint accessible.
EDIT: As a side not, I can highly recommend the following tools/resources for anyone interested in accessible development:

Chris Pederick's Web Accessibility
Toolbar
NDA's Web Accessibility IT
Guidelines


You can try FireEyes(http://www.deque.com/products/worldspace-fireeyes/download-worldspace-fireeyes) . You can run it in firebug and can set up your own set of rules through a dedicated server.
FireEyes is an unprecedented, nextgen web accessibility tool that ensures both static and dynamic content within a web portfolio are compliant with standards such as Section 508, WCAG 1.0, and WCAG 2.0. You can use another tool, but it won’t be fully JavaScript aware or handle event-based page content, like FireEyes. Does your site: 
Use AJAX, JavaScript, Flash, PDFs, or dynamic content?
Personalize multiple user roles?
Display pages based on user-entered data?
Use a content management system, with or without templates?
Need to be accessible, secure, and private?

This is the list of web accessibility tools currently available:
1. Worldspace (price varies by number of pages): Though this tool is not free, it is the most comprehensive web accessibility tool out there. It’s highly customizable and can check AJAX applications and WCAG 2.0, along with Canadian Common Look and Feel, UK DDA and Japanese Industrial Standard

Firefox Accessibility Extension (free): The Firefox Accessibility Extension brings an array of accessibility tools together in one extension. It stands out for its ability to validate dynamic content through Web 2.0 applications. In addition to integrating with other accessibility tools, it also supports the Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA) standard and includes tools for creating accessible scripts
WebAnywhere (free): When checking web accessibility, automated tools are never enough. WebAnywhere is a web application that simulates how a typical screen-reading program such as Window-eyes or Jaws would interact with a web page. It has some of the same commands used by screen-reader users to browse websites, so as a web designer, you can experience your site as a screen reader user would.
Web Accessibility Inspector (free): This is a desktop application that checks accessibility based on WCAG 1.0. Though not as up to date as the Firefox Accessibility Extension, this tool is easier to use, as it offers visual cues that point out where accessibility problems exist.
EvalAccess (free): This tool, developed by the University of the Basque Country in Spain, is one of the only free tools that lets you evaluate an entire website for compliance with the WCAG version 1.0. Results are displayed in an easy-to-read report. The tool gives you a brief description of each error detected, along with the line numbers in the source where it can be found. It’s not the most user friendly access tool, but it works well enough to help most designers and developers clean up their sites.
Vischeck (free): Vischeck is a visual simulator that can simulate how a web page looks to someone with either of three types of color blindness. There are millions of color blind people around the world who find it difficult to distinguish between certain colors. Vischeck is a quick way for you to tell if your images, navigation buttons or color selections may be confusing to these people. You can either upload a picture or have Vischeck analyze a specific web page.
Juicy Studio (free): Juicy Studio, created by Jez Lemon in the UK, has several specialized accessibility tools. Primary among these is a color contrast analyzer Firefox extension that can analyze the contrast of the foreground and background colors of text nodes in a document. This helps you find areas with low contrast that could make your site difficult to read by color blind individuals as well as those with visual impairments. Juicy Studio also includes a table analyzer, readability analyzer and more.
Media Access Generator (free): MAGpie, the Media Access Generator, is a tool that creates captions and audio descriptions for various video formats. As Flash has now become more or less universal around the web, it is more important than ever that deaf and blind people alike are able to get the most from Flash videos and websites. Not only are captions helpful for translating the audio track of a video into other languages, they enable those who are deaf or hard of hearing to receive the same content as is heard on the audio track. Audio descriptions allow blind people to follow the action of a video by overlaying an audio track describing the action. MAGpie can create audio description and caption files for the major video formats including: Windows Media Player, Real Player, Quicktime and Flash.
WAVE (free): WAVE, the Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool, is a simple, free tool that can quickly check the Section 508 and/or WCAG 1.0 accessibility of an URL. It can’t crawl, so it’s not practical to use for checking an entire site, but if you want to quickly check an URL, a file or a code snippet, WAVE is a quick and comprehensive option. You can also download a WAVE toolbar for Firefox that lets you locally analyze web pages. This is particularly helpful if you have sensitive pages you don’t want to transmit over an unencrypted connection or you have a small, local site you need to analyze.
Web Accessibility Toolbar (free): The Web Accessibility Toolbar offers a suite of tools to manually check all types of possible accessibility problems, from low contrast areas to incorrect scripting. The toolbar works in both Internet Explorer and Opera. It doesn’t seem to have been updated recently, but its tools are still very useful for low-vision accessibility testing as well as to validate HTML for typical accessibility errors.
ColorA11y (free): Chrome Developer Tools extension to test color contrast.

