Tools To Help You Plan Projects / Features
project-planning
What tools do you use to plan a project or a large feature set? I currently use a mix of Word for writing specs and Photoshop for mockups, but is there something more suited for developers?


Good old Excel works best for plans and task lists I've found.  Tried things like Project but hated it.

I would set up a Wiki.  Its what I use for planning, since its visible to everyone on the team, and editable by everyone on the team. Trac is the Wiki that I use.  MoinMoin is another Wiki that I have used.


Web2Project for schedules
Maven documentation generation for specifications
Mindmaps for brainstorming
Balsamiq Mockups for UI prototypes


StpA Storyboarding. http://wagnerblog.com/2007/09/04/love-at-first-sight/
Its a Jolt Award Winner and does a really nice job

We use dotProject - an online project management tool, we also use that for delivery tracking.

I actually really like Joel's FogBugz. He offers a free hosted account for up to 2 users (perfect for personal little projects that I'm running all the time), and with excellent SVN integration, it just steals the day.
Plus, if you have a buddy, you can collaborate very well - FogBugz has a wiki in the latest version. I still find a good old bug list to be a better way to structure things, though - priorities, releases, assigned to... Seems more organized. 


Microsoft OneNote - to outline features, prioritize, etc
Balsamiq Mockups - To mockup the screens and controls
Microsoft Project - to setup a basic project plan with milestones


A Wiki like Confluence or XWiki, with the UI Mockup plugin Balsamiq makes a very nice integrated solution.  

There are several phases in the software development process (this applies to both agile and waterfall):

Requirement analysis. This is where you figure out what the
client/stakeholder wants and try to create an extensive list of
required features. Put that list in an Excel file and use it as a
base for writing the functional specifications. 
Functional specifications. This is where you define the features of the software mapped to requirements, usually as use case scenarios with UI mockups and functional descriptions. 
Design specifications. This is is where you talk about technical aspects of the development: software components, packages, classes and UI design.

For the functional and design specifications you coulds use the MockupUI tool. It lets you draw wireframe or high fidelity user interfaces, write notes for each screen and generate full design specification as a Word, PDF or HTML document.

Planning. Once you know what needs to be done you can start planning. You could use Excel or a project management tool for this part. Planning is about design, development, testing, documentation and resources (staffing plan).

