How can I get Eclipse to show .* files?
eclipse file hidden
By default, Eclipse won't show my .htaccess file that I maintain in my project.  It just shows an empty folder in the Package Viewer tree.  How can I get it to show up?  No obvious preferences.


In your package explorer, pull down the menu and select "Filters ...".  You can adjust what types of files are shown/hidden there.
Looking at my Red Hat Developer Studio (approximately Eclipse 3.2), I see that the top item in the list is ".* resources" and it is excluded by default.

In the package explorer, in the upper right corner of the view, there is a little down arrow. Tool tip will say view menu. From that menu, select filters

From there, uncheck .* resources.
So Package Explorer -> View Menu -> Filters -> uncheck .* resources.
With Eclipse Kepler and OS X this is a bit different:
Package Explorer -> Customize View -> Filters -> uncheck .* resources


If you're using Eclipse PDT, this is done by opening up the PHP explorer view, then clicking the upside-down triangle in the top-right of that window. A context window appears, and the filters option is available there. Clicking the Filters menu option opens a new window, where .* files can be unchecked, thus allowing the editing of .htaccess files.
I searched forever for this, so I'm sorta answering my own question here. I'm sure someone else will have the same problem too, so I hope this helps someone else as well.

If using Zend Studio, same arrow, go to RSE view, click on the downward facing arrow, hit preferences, and then check show hidden files.
That did the trick for me.

Cory is correct
@ If you're using Eclipse PDT, this is done by opening up the PHP explorer view
I just spent about half an hour looking for the little arrow, until I actually looked up what the 'PHP Explorer' view is. Here is a screenshot:


In my case, I wanted to see .htaccess files, but not all the other .* resources.
In Zend Studio for Eclipse, in PHP Explorer (not Remote System Explorer), click the downward facing arrow (next to the left/right arrows).
Choose Filters.
Uncheck .* resources
In the "Name filter patterns" area, type the filenames you want to ignore.
I used: 
.svn, .cvs, .DS_Store, .buildpath, .project

I'm using 64 bit Eclipse for PHP Devleopers
Version: Helios Service Release 2
It cam with RSE..
None of the above solutions worked for me... What I did was similar to scubabble's answer, but after clicking the down arrow (view menu) in the top of the RSE package explorer I had to mouseover "Preferences" and click on "Remote Systems"
I then opened the "Remote Systems" nav tree in the left of the preferences window that came u and went to "Files"
Underneath a list of File types is a checkbox that was unchecked: "Show hidden files"
CHECK IT!

On Mac:
Eclipse -> Preferences -> Remote Systems -> Files -> click Show Hidden Files.

For Project Explorer View:
1. Click on arrow(View Menu) in right corner
2. Select Customize View... item from menu
3. Uncheck *.resources checkbox under Filters tab
4. Click OK
--
Eclipse Juno

Eclipse shows hidden files in the "Navigator" view. You can add that via Window->Show View->Navigator.

Preferences -> Remote Systems -> Files -> Show hidden files
(make sure this is checked)
